In this video we're going to talk about competitive analysis and what it was you were building whether
it's a Web site or app or new product that is revolutionary.
There will always be some sort of competition.
So by competition I mean there must be some products that are similar to your product or they are close
to your product.
So I don't think that there is no competition.
There will always be some competition or some competitor to your product.
So why would we do this.
We are going to check and benchmark our app our website or our product with other similar products so
we are going to see where we stand in this race.
So this is very important.
It is going to give you a lot of in-depth analysis of what the competition is doing and what we should
do.
Now the question is What are different factors you should test with your competitors.
Now the first thing is in my case which is from clan website I'm going to check navigation information
architecture how they are moving the customers from the logon page to the checkout page.
Then the second one will be product information and it is for are different frocks or dresses informations
or pieces of information that are present on other websites what are their standards.
Similarly we are also going to see trust and credibility.
So how much and why our customers.
They have more trust on other brand or maybe other e-commerce store or maybe other app.
Why their usage and why they think that it is more credible than I also have asked few things about
onboarding log in and sign ups.
You are also going to see what our different call to actions.
What are the labels they have been using.
How effective they are.
Call to actions are for example Biden or button or add to card.
You have seen on Amazon dot com.
It is strictly different from the whole bid and it is orange and yellow and they really attract the
customer.
Similarly we want to see the checkout process because each website each e-commerce platform there are
different rules different checkout process.
So if you are building any app or anything these things will be different for those so if you will in
my case I was testing e-commerce Web site.
So I have listed these few things which I am going to test with my competitors.
Now how we are going to conduct competitive analysis.
The thing is that you need to ask your users during the interview to order something or to use your
competitors website.
I actually did it and it is the best way to learn what they have in their products and what they lack
in their products.
What are their strengths.
What are their weaknesses.
Because we need to see what our different usability problems are the when my customer.
They go to another e-commerce website or a similar app.
I am building what are the problems they face how and which areas are sections of the app we can improve
or we have opportunity to improve that.
So in this whole competitive analysis we are going to look at different sections which we think are
essential to our app.
We are also going to benchmark our system or our app.
If we already have an app we are going to benchmark it said that right now we stand at 60 percent or
we give our our self like 50 percent on log in.
So our logon is 50 percent easier with respect to the standards which others are following.
So we need to improve that.
So whenever you are doing user experience process or you will expense research or user interviews there
will be two scenarios whether you already have the product build or you have to build a product from
scratch so these are two points from where you will always start your user experience design process.
So in both processes you are going to check your website your app your your mobile app or whatever you
are building your product with your competition.
So even if it's not a digital product you are still going to check it with similar products already
built.
Now let me show you the document I prepared and what I did in my competitive analysis and you can download
this competitive analysis document from this lesson in the resources.
So don't worry that you will not get it.
There are different formats I am going to show you.
It is very easy.
Don't worry at all.
Let's see this example now here is my comparative analysis for Franklin.
And you can see I have written all here tested for log and sign up credibility searching filtering and
check out process so you can see here.
I have tested my competitors main competitors were that I was taught be gay which is one of the biggest
online store in my country.
Then I have sharp hive which is very old and very credible online store.
Then we have e export left towards yellow which have different kind of category of goods to sell.
So I needed to see what are different online competitors and what are their strengths and weaknesses.
Now if we talk about shop hive they are very credible but they are not related to my niche which is
clothing so sharp hive was related to.
You can say technology products so they are selling computers things like that but I included it just
to see how the checkout process is and how their logging is and how the sign up is so you can see here
are different strengths like like drawers is the biggest store variety of products to select from already
established well-known guard and wish list are powerful.
There are very powerful features you can easily move your item to wishlist and from wishlist to cart
search and many filter options because it is a very big platform and now coming to the weaknesses slowed
delivery.
So I have seen I have ordered myself and hard about about its ordering problems.
That and this delivery is very slow sometimes it takes 7 days sometimes 5 sometimes 10 days sometimes
you even don't get your product even for a month.
Too many suppliers.
Quality is insurance is not good.
So there are too many shops that are supplying on drugs so it is a very messy with suppliers.
When we go to check out there was no clear payment method selection selection section so it was difficult
for the user to see which method should I select or it is it selected or not.
No option for to filter by fabric time which is our main.
You can say aha moment for filtering.
We are going to add this fabric dye filtering to our website which is frankly an e-commerce store then
we have sharp hive.
There are different strengths and weaknesses.
Similarly from yellow.
So the main layout of this whole competitive analysis will be competitors and some of their description.
If you can use the online you are that is okay.
Then we have some of the strengths.
Then we have some of the weaknesses.
So this is actually the main template for your competitive analysis.
Let's let me show you one more template extensible.
I have already shown you this app and you can see over here.
Here is again we have competitive analysis.
And here we have you can say our top down layout for the same thing we did image of the competitor of
logo with here.
Then we have complete a name location size of the company that how big is it.
For example like the last dot com authorized are big in my case it was the biggest very big online store
and then some of the description if you can use the jurors on the Web you can use that product photo
if you want to list over here.
And then again the main area or section which is strength and weaknesses so weaknesses are the things
we have we are going to learn and we are going to grow from this.
We are going to learn from the weaknesses of others.
This is how we are going to improve our user experience.
Okay so here is another section which which is called market breakdown.
It is showing us the kind of competitor we are dealing with.
So whether it's a very premium budget you can say that it is very costly to build something like that
but it is business to business or business to consumer kind of competition or Web site or e-commerce
whether it's e-commerce retail local or global services or products.
What are the selling.
So things like that.
It is just to get the estimate of how much costly the competitor is if you will want to build something
similar it will be very costly or things like that.
So this is main template if you want to see it is going to be an extension of upside competitive comprehensive
analysis and that is going to sum up my this lesson which I think is really important.
You need to compare your products with others similar products to see where we can improve where we
can have some standard function which others are expecting our users are expecting that checkout should
have these many steps or these many options which is industry standards we are going to find these two
things industry standards and weaknesses where we can improve.
So that is all about competitive analysis.
I think we should move on to the next N.S.A..